hey Nathan it's Wednesday August twelfth
and today i'm talking about parallel
dimensions cognitive bias and cartoon
bears so last week during some down time
in Jamaica I was scrolling through
Facebook and i saw this kind of silly
article about the popular but somewhat
dated children book series the
berenstein bears and how it's recently
been messing with everyone's minds
because everyone remembers it as being
Berenstein and not Berenstain this has
been like really upsetting some people
and using this confusion and the fact
that everyone remembers it being spelled
alternately some people have come to the
singular conclusion that someone or
something has been tampering with our
universe and we have memory evidence of
it
now I'm no theoretical physicist I
couldn't even spell it at first I swear
it always had an H in it or even a
regular physicist so I can't really
comment on the existence of parallel
universes or time tampering but many I'm
going to assume also non theoretical
physicists are claiming that the
discrepancy in the way that some people
remember it being spelled and the way
that it is spelled in reality is strong
evidence for one that there are parallel
universes and to that one of them has
somehow interacted or merged with ours
in the physics world the term parallel
universes is more commonly attributed to
the term multi-universe which is as
wikipedia describes the hypothetical set
of infinite or finite possible universes
that together comprise everything that
exists in the entirety of space-time
matter and energy as well as the
physical laws and constants that
described them as with anything that
hasn't been scientifically proven
multiverse hypotheses are hotly debated
and ruminated upon by many theoretical
physicists some hypotheses include
possible interactions between parallel
universes whether it's merging splitting
or having effects upon each other in
some way although I'm not even sure of
hypotheses containing these speculations
actually come from respected theoretical
physicists or just lay people taking
science ii sounding terms to explain
their meta imaginings more like science
fiction and science fact either way from
that we get some people believing that
somehow sometime between the past aka
our childhood from which of course
recalled memories are infallible and now
some parallel universe has altered hours
in a way so that Berenstein is now
Berenstain and our memories were not
altered accordingly I mean how else
could we all be wrong my explanation is
psychology specifically cognitive bias
specifically specifically memory bias
what I think is really the case or at
least partially is that the ending st
ein is much is a much more common ending
for last names than st AI n and that
that people just thought that that was
how it was also those children books
were read by us as children where maybe
we weren't quite paying super attention
to the
spelling of words longer than five
letters on top of it several specific
memory biases can come into play here
like suggestibility a form of
misattribution where ideas suggested by
a questioner are mistaken for memory
where people read an article saying
berenstein bears are spelled Berenstain
but i remember it Berenstein with Annie
it's Annie yeah I think I remember that
too or confirmation bias the tendency to
search for interpret or recall
information in a way that confirms one's
beliefs or hypotheses where people are
reminded of the Berenstain Bears for the
first time since childhood and upon
realizing that their memory of how it is
spelled is different from the actual
spelling believe that there must be some
other reason that they are spelled
differently other than just that their
belief of how it is spelled is wrong
it's hard to accept that our memories
are fallible being able to remember
things like past events things we
learned about in school like everything
really it's it's strongly attributed to
what makes us human and what makes up
our human experience that's one reason
why Alzheimer's disease is considered to
be such a sad disease to suffer from
when we're shown something that tests
our brains ability to remember
everything and fallible it makes sense
that we would get defensive and look for
exterior reasons on why memory and
evidence don't line up but there can be
pretty destructive to so many innocent
people are sent to prison because of
falsely remembered eyewitness accounts
there's something so human about hearing
someone say that person did it I know
they did it I remember seeing them do it
and believing them John Green made an
awesome video about him remembering very
much that someone had put poop or pooped
in his Nintendo when he and his brother
Hank were kids a couple weeks later he
made a video in which he realized that
the whole time his whole life he
believed a story that he had made up
himself that he doesn't even remember
making up but he had made it all up he
made up a story about a poop being in
his Nintendo and it never actually
happened and he had to come to terms
with that well I believe that this
holstein stain thing will blow over I'm
so glad that advancements in the field
of psychology and the study of the brain
will further help us to understand the
way that we perceive the universe Nathan
we'll see
on Friday so narwhals tell me do you
remember it as steen or stain do you
think you have a memory bias let me know
in the comments personally I didn't
really read the books much as a kid they
were read to me I remember seeing it a
few years later and being like oh it's
spelled with an A and that was that hey
Nathan what's your testimony on the
whole Berenstein Berenstain Bears thing
I remember it being well oh I remember
being a kid and being like this is felt
funny Berenstain so all you Berenstein
people out there you're wrong it's
Berenstain boom straight from this guy's
mouth oh my god no okay thank you bye